it's not necessarily that like back then
i was the realest that i'd ever been i
had a lot of flaws then you know what i
mean like my parents never like
instilled anything that parents instill
in you like structure responsibility or
schedule i dropped out of high school at
15 because i couldn't even like go to
school on time like so many of the
mistakes i'd like i made in the
beginning of my career were from lack of
so many things like i needed you know
yeah what's your opinion on marijuana do
you smoke i personally don't smoke weed
she's like how do i unlock it
on a complete side note please no one
put this in anything i'm so high that i
can't feel the car movies
i take adderall all the time you guys
know so like i'll take like a fourth of
a 20 milligram pill like five milligrams
of batter in my bag everywhere i go i
always have a pill bottle filled with
adderall why does the bottle say that
this is oxycodone
and there's just there's not even
oxycodone in there like the pain pills
in there we're like hydrocodone like an
adderall dealer in l.a and you happen to
run across this hit my business email
like i'm not offend like i'll just buy
something to be real my family's like
definitely very dead to me like we're
still like i'll never i'll probably
never talk to them again i'm already
like too high to speak
i don't even know how to say it but like
my childhood was just the worst thing on
earth and i'm very lucky to have gotten
out of that but obviously i spent like
15 years of my life being so incredibly
emotionally abused and physically abused
and mentally abused and just like
tormented and like i was raising myself
all of those years and like i built up
so much hatred for my parents and like
so much anger for like the entire life
that they've given me and it was like
instantly i got thrown into this way out
and obviously when you have a way out of
a life like that you're going to take it
this
is one of the busiest intersections
in this small city if you look at the
grass carefully here you see there's a
square that's darker green than the
light green grass
that's because there were tents set up
here there were tents with drug addicts
living all along this median all along
this park for months and now instead
there's a sign that doesn't say doesn't
say pitching a tent is illegal it tells
you which public parks
the police will tolerate and encourage
you to set up attention this is one of
the busiest
buildings in the whole city see the
sliding front doors there in front of
this uh grocery store
i have seen a man in broad daylight
get down on his knees right in front of
that sliding door oblivious to the
people moving around him
take out a piece of tin foil a lighter
and a glass pipe on his knees right
there on the sidewalk with no hesitation
with no shame this is not a bustling
busy city some of you may be laughing
saying this is the most busy
intersection this is one of the busiest
doors yeah it is this is basically a
small town
okay the streets are empty and yet
everywhere you go
they're filled
with drug addicts yeah as never before
you can see why most of the recording i
do is indoors with indoor lighting
but what you can't see is that in the
few minutes between those takes where we
walked from one park to another in
downtown victoria we passed at least
four drug addicts in various states of
distress and it's not just my theory
that these people were drug addicts some
of them had the paraphernalia out in
front of them they had the glass pipe
out and one guy
had passed out
while standing upright
some of you listen to this will have no
idea what i'm talking about how can
someone be blacked out and standing
upright and some of you are living in
cities that are so full of drug addicts
like oh yeah i see that
once a week okay we see the glass pipes
we see the needles in people's arms and
just in walking a few blocks really any
blocks between any two points on the map
here downtown of the city
yeah that's a huge part of why so few of
my videos
are filmed outdoors
what does tana mongeau
have to do
with homeless drug addicts living in
tents
on the street oh yeah we think about
these things as if
they're too completely separate
categories
as if the fact that you sleep in a
mansion you sleep on a four-post bed
makes the problem of drug addiction or
the challenge of sobriety any different
as if your ability
to manage the consequences of your drug
habit right your your ability to
basically keep money in your bank
account keep a roof over your head as if
that makes it any less of a problem or
as if in a really kind of perverse way
we just think of people
as being
intellectually unequal
ethically unequal right as if there are
some people
who are just born
to live out their lives on the street
hopelessly and then there are others who
are in this category of i don't know
highly effective people have the
potential to to change the world
well i don't believe that all right i
think all of us have the positive
potential to change the world and that's
why it's so tragic
that we have a whole generation of
people now
who are squandering it it's really easy
to look at tana mongeau
as if she had always been destined to
turn out this way
as if there were something wrong with
her
inherent in her character
that guaranteed that she could not have
accomplished something better for
herself intellectually or ethically
and we think this way
because it's reassuring for us
if we pass a homeless drug addict on the
street and it happens to be someone you
recognize it was someone you knew in
college maybe it was someone you knew in
high school maybe it's someone you knew
as a little kid back in grade four back
in kindergarten oh
i remember that guy isn't it reassuring
to think
there must be something wrong with him
there must be something wrong deep down
inside
that made it inevitable that he'd turn
out like this and not me that somehow
i'm
morally different intellectually
different special better and it's not
true
there aren't two classes of humanity one
of which has the potential to make the
world a better place and the other of
which is just doomed and determined to
be fixated on their own self-destruction
on the dissipation of their potential
through
drugs and alcohol with someone like tana
moncho
you can go back and listen to her videos
from five years ago
you can hear
how different she was
you can see the potential she had
yeah
intellectually
with someone like the amazing atheist
you can go back five years you can go
back 10 years
and you can chart his intellectual
decline
or to flatter him his intellectual
stagnation it's so tempting
it's so easy to look at who he is today
and then to see that as some kind of
inevitable result of something that was
wrong with him deep down inside there
was nothing inevitable
about tana mongeau dropping out of high
school there was nothing inevitable
about the amazing atheist dropping out
of high school there was nothing
inevitable about ali hardesty dropping
out of college all of these people were
intelligent enough to complete a
university degree
all of them if they get sober they still
are now
intelligent enough they still can
develop they still can grow
and a further reason why we tend to
essentialize these problems treat them
as a fundamental part of a person's
character
is that so many of the drug users
themselves will present a narrative in
this way whereby they are a victim of
their circumstance tana mongeau explains
to you in a moving way that she had
terrible parents she had a terrible
childhood she had a terrible upbringing
and that that makes her who she is today
but it's just
not true that there are two classes of
humanity the drunks and the drug addicts
who had terrible parents and those of us
who are sober and self-disciplined
because we had good parents okay
there are millions of us
untold millions who had terrible parents
and with traumatic experiences whether
as children or as adults who live a
sober self-disciplined life all right
the difference between the sober and the
drunk is not
a binary matter of whether or not we
have emotional problems the difference
is in how we cope with those emotional
problems the difference frankly is in
the progress we make we're all born
stupid we're all born ignorant we're all
born selfish but we're also born curious
we're also born ambitious
and the drugs and alcohol snuff that
curiosity and ambition
out tana i sympathize
with your story about how terrible your
childhood was i sympathized your story
about what terrible
parents you had i sympathize more than
you could possibly know
but there's another question here which
is why aren't you over it yet
why didn't you deal with this in the
last five years and my answer is for you
it's because of the drugs and alcohol
some of you will say that i'm wrong
you'll look at someone like tana mongeau
and say she has a wonderful life she's a
great success story you look at someone
like the amazing atheist or ali hardesty
and say what an amazing life what a
success story
when you look back at just the last five
years leading up to this point
what you have to recognize is
there is a better person
that they could be
today
if they have been sober during the last
five years
and that better person now
will never exist
there's a kind of potential there
that's been snuffed out and that is the
sense in which the drug addicts who live
in fancy mansions and sleep on four
poster beds
are exactly the same
as the drug addicts who are sleeping on
the street tonight
every single one of them had a mother
and a father
some of them went to school with you
some of them had
at some stage the same
intellectual potential that you've got
now everything that a family like
instills there was never like that
reliability again everything i feel like
i am is because i was making up for what
they
like weren't you know what i mean like
they were so shitty and they were
abusive and they were you know they
treated me bad and i was like i don't
want to be that i want to treat people
well i want to like because i'm a very
productive person i like to get up i
like to start my days i like to be
productive and for the most part just
not really me not really my thing like i
said i like to be productive that's why
i smoke crack no i'm just kidding but
really yeah i was gonna say this is one
of the only times i ever did acid but
that's just not true so i won't mind you
i'll save you that time but this was my
first time taking like real acid on my
tongue like full tab like let's go baby
i hate drugs and i believe this country
would do better if
everyone would stop
smoking marijuana and doing all these
drugs i am very sorry for what i did and
i have to live with it every day
and that if i were to get a second
chance i would do everything my power to
try to help others the way they raised
me wasn't it they just neglected me in
like a lot of ways i definitely didn't
get like proper health care proper food
proper schooling proper love proper
nurturing proper schedule but it's cool
to see you like like to rise from that
yeah push through that well i wanted to
help like kids who like you know what i
mean but i try to push through because i
know that's what you guys would want me
to do and i hope you give me
a chance
to try to help others i wanted to help
like kids who like you know what i mean
like maybe they didn't have the best
home yeah if
i believe it's your decision to decide
where i go
whether i live or die because that's
like that's the reality of it all you
know we're not always all raised by like
perfect families and sometimes we just
have to you know pick [ __ ] up and raise
ourselves the role that drugs and
alcohol play in our life
is complex
but in a sense the significance of
sobriety in our life is far more complex
far more profound living with a kind of
curiosity and ambition to learn more be
more all the time
and never turning it off
all right
that leads to emotional intellectual and
ethical progress in all kinds of ways
that again you can't reduce to a simple
mathematical formula on the chalkboard
it's hard to look at the amazing atheist
or ali hardesty and feel like this
person wasn't always doomed to turn out
to be a brainless scumbag they had the
same kind of intellectual potential i do
and it's even harder when you're looking
at a homeless drug addict on the street
okay
i have so many older brothers guys who
have a fair bit of dna in common with me
and i think those guys were born with
the same intellectual potential i had or
to turn it around they were born just as
stupid as i was you know i wasn't born
any less stupid than they were either
okay but they made the wrong choices
they got drugs and alcohol involved in
their lives and so like tana mongeau
there's a sense in which they never made
progress
and guess what my brothers and i were
all dealing with the same bad parents
we're dealing with the same bad culture
the same bad school system the same bad
political context the same bad
upbringing
in so many ways
you can guess i'm not close with any of
my brothers these are guys i talk to
once every five years or once every 10
years
but you know what i can see with every
single one of them
five years go by and they haven't
learned a goddamn thing
they haven't made any progress no not
intellectually not in terms of like
research
but also not emotionally
they've got baggage they've been
carrying around with themselves since
childhood
they've never learned to take a more
philosophical attitude towards they've
never questioned it they've never
analyzed it they've never investigated
they never learned
to put it down
one of my brothers you know
he hated me from the day i was born and
i've been in situations where he walks
into the room and there are a bunch of
other people and everyone can feel it
everyone picks up on the tension once
just once i sat down to talk to him
about why does he feel this way what
does he think and the stuff he told me
it falls apart after five seconds of
analysis or introspection he tells me oh
well you went to a better university
than i did really i went to the
university of toronto you went to the
university of ottawa i could see you
that you went to a better university
than i did in in my area of study and in
his area of study in terms of what our
actual majors were and i thought what do
you mean i applied to go to your
university i'm visiting i know it's a
good universe what are you saying to me
these universities are equal or actually
your university is slightly better in
our fields right he had he had a better
education than me he ended up with a
master's degree i only have an honors pa
you know
immediately he shifts onto claiming that
i went to a better primary school that i
went to a better high school team we sit
down and talk about it for five minutes
it's a fantasy he constructed in his
mind he probably constructed his mind
when he was still a little boy or a
teenager he had constructed this fantasy
that had this amazing life of privilege
he never once asked anyone he never once
asked me
what kind of school i went to and as
soon as we start talking about it guess
what it turns out that you know
he went to better schools than i did at
every stage of his education this kind
of jealousy this kind of envy this kind
of sibling rivalry it's not
extraordinary it's not rare it's
dismally common
what's uncommon
is my brother's
failure to cope with it his failure to
question it his failure to ever think
these things through and ultimately over
the passage of years
his inability
to ever
get over it and yes what i'm telling you
is drugs and alcohol played a crucial
role in this way in perpetuating his
emotional problems what youtube shows us
again and again
is young brilliant people
bristling with potential
and then their total
lack of intellectual development
as soon as they have just a little bit
of money and fame
coming in through this platform
and yeah
in most of these cases
the crucial undisclosed factor is drug
addiction whether or not it's perceived
as an addiction
it's the role that drugs and alcohol
play
in snuffing out their curiosity
in smothering their ambition
and making them incapable
of the kind of emotional progress the
kind of overcoming of our emotional
problems
that sober people are doing all the time
even when we don't
particularly
try
my sling is editorial explicit material
briefcase show lava stereo flow fill me